# Kalman Filter

## What is Kalman Filter?
The Kalman Filter is used to estimate the state of a system. Observations are not necessarily accurate, even when using sensors, as they can contain errors. Estimation can be performed by comparing observation data with the predicted state generated by models.
To begin, it's necessary to define the models, which consist of a system equation and an observation equation. These models are defined based on what you intend to estimate.

For instance, if you estimate the position of an object with 2d-constant velocity without control, which means acceleration is 0, in xy-space, they are as follows;
$$\boldsymbol{x}=(x,y,v_x,v_y)^\mathrm{T}$$
$$x(t)=x(t-1)+v_x\delta t$$
$$y(t)=y(t-1)+v_y\delta t$$
$$v_x(t)=v_x(t-1)$$
$$v_y(t)=v_y(t-1)$$

Thus, the models can be defined by 
$$\boldsymbol{x}(t+1)=\boldsymbol{Ax}(t)+\boldsymbol{Bv}(t)$$ 
$$\boldsymbol{z}(t)=\boldsymbol{Cx}(t)+\boldsymbol{w}(t)$$ 
, where 
$$
\boldsymbol{A}=
\left(
\begin{matrix} 
1 & 0 & \delta t & 0 \\ 
0 & 1 & 0 &\delta t  \\ 
0 & 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 
0 & 0 & 0 & 1
\end{matrix} 
\right)
$$
$$\boldsymbol{C}=
\left(
\begin{matrix} 
1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 
0 & 1 & 0 & 0
\end{matrix} 
\right)$$
$$\boldsymbol{v}(t) \sim N(0, \sigma_v^2)$$
$$\boldsymbol{w}(t) \sim N(0, \sigma_w^2)$$

The procedure to estimate is devided into 2 steps and repeate them.

0. **Initialization step**  
This is coducted once at the begining of estimating. Give an initial state vector $\boldsymbol{x}_0$ and an initial covariance matrix $\boldsymbol{P}_0$. $\boldsymbol{x}_0=\boldsymbol{0}$ when you have no idea or initial data. $\boldsymbol{P}_0=\gamma \boldsymbol{I}$, where $\gamma$ is a constant coefficient and $\boldsymbol{I}$ is identity matrix.
1. **Prediction step**  
Predict estimate and covariance based on the defined models.
$$\text{prior estimate} : \boldsymbol{\hat{x}}^-(t)={E}[\boldsymbol{x}(t-1)]=\boldsymbol{{A}\hat{x}}(t-1)+\boldsymbol{B}_u\boldsymbol{u}(t-1)$$
$$\text{prior covariance matrix} : \boldsymbol{P}^-(t)=\boldsymbol{AP}(t-1)\boldsymbol{A}^{\mathrm{T}}+\boldsymbol{BQB}^{\mathrm{T}}$$
$$\text{system nose covariance matrix} : \boldsymbol{Q}=\mathrm{E}[\boldsymbol{v}(t)\boldsymbol{v}(t)^{\mathrm{T}}]$$
2. **Correction step**  
Update estimate using the difference between the predicted observation and new observation by sensors.
$$\text{kalman gain} : \boldsymbol{G}(t)=\boldsymbol{P}^-(t)\boldsymbol{C}^{\mathrm{T}}(\boldsymbol{CP}^-(t)\boldsymbol{{C}^{\mathrm{T}}+\boldsymbol{R}})^{-1}$$
$$\text{observation noise covariance matrix} : \boldsymbol{R}=\mathrm{E}[\boldsymbol{w}(t)\boldsymbol{w}(t)^{\mathrm{T}}]$$
$$\text{posterior estimate} : \boldsymbol{\hat{x}}(t)=\boldsymbol{\hat{x}}^-(t)+\boldsymbol{G}(t)(\boldsymbol{z}(t)-\boldsymbol{C}\boldsymbol{\hat{x}}^-(t))$$
$$\text{posterior covariance matrix} : \boldsymbol{P}(t)=(\boldsymbol{I}-\boldsymbol{G}(t)\boldsymbol{C})\boldsymbol{P}^-(t)$$

## How do we compute kalman gain and estimate error covariance matrix?


## To Do
- カルマンゲインと誤差共分散行列の導出を手書きのやつあげようか
- 直交性の原理
- 逆行列補題
- なんか行列出力されない
- 確率微分方程式，加速度項の揺らぎ
- 


# Reference
- [カルマンフィルタの基礎 足立修一・丸太一郎 共著](https://www.tdupress.jp/book/b349390.html)